All right all right.
I think it's time for us to actually start practicing some of these skills instead of just talking about
theory because I know right now everything looks super complicated.
You think that to be a machine learning expert.
You have to have a PHC and you have to be really really smart with math and statistics but often that's
not really the case.
So in this video I want to show you what it actually means to do machine learning or data science.
So in this machine learning one to one.
Let's talk about what a machine learning expert does.
The first thing that a person does is to usually import
that is we have some sort of a CSP file and we're going to import that data and we know how to do that
with Python right.
We import a CSP data file so that we can use it in our program.
And don't worry.
These are the steps that we're actually going to show you when we do our upcoming projects.
So the first thing is to import the data.
Next what do we do.
Well we clean the data that is in an ideal world.
We have perfect data all the columns all the rows of a CSP file are filled in and everything is perfect.
But that's often not the case.
Sometimes you have missing labels.
Sometimes you have missing cells or data and sometimes we have just unusable data that's really really
bad.
So we ideally clean the data so that when we use it later on it's not going to give us any errors or
make bad predictions.
Now number three what does a machine learning expert do.
Well we split the data and this is an interesting one.
We usually split the data into what we call a training set and a test set.
What does this mean well splitting the data simply means just deciding we have let's say a hundred rows
of excel and we decide that the 80 rows are going to be our training set while we give the machine to
learn from.
And then the last 20 rows are going to be the test set because we have to tell the machine whether it
got the answer right or wrong.
So we need a way for us to test with our pre-existing data whether our model is good or bad.
Again this is something that we'll explore.
But usually you split your data your Excel sheet into a training set.
What we use as input and then the test set what we use to test the output that that machine learning
function gives us and that's really easy to do we just decide hey 80 percent of the data is going to
be training set and 20 percent is the test set up until now these three things are pretty easy right.
And as we'll see they are quite easy next is we create a model.
All right.
This one sounds really really hard right.
We just went from splitting data to all the set and we're creating this function this model that our
program creates.
But the funny thing is is that most likely what you do when you create a model is to import an algorithm
you're not going to write the algorithm from scratch yourself.
Usually you use a library like cycle learn which we're actually going to use to simply do an import
and then decide what algorithm you want to use like decision trees or K nearest neighbor and we'll actually
see how to do that in an upcoming exercise.
So that's really nice.
Somebody has already built an algorithm for us that creates the model based on our training set and
the running joke is that when people think about machine learning expert they think of all these mathematical
equations that people do but most of the time it's people just simply importing from a library an algorithm
that's a one liner next.
What do you think we do well we check the output right.
We create the model that is the function.
We have the input which is the training set and then we check the output of this model with our test
set so the test set.
We're going to say hey is the output matching what we expected so once we check the output what do we
do while we improve.
So most likely the first time around it's not going to get it completely right.
So based on a test set we say hey we can probably improve something so as a machine learning expert
you might give it extra inputs.
That is maybe an extra column in the Excel file or you might want to change the model or the algorithm
that you used to create this model.
That's it.
These are the six steps of what you do and you just repeat these steps.
Now we'll come back to these and I'll link to this in the resource so that you can always have it in
the back of your mind.
But right now you just learn something really really fundamental.
You see Facebook here.
This is pretty much how they run their machine learning pipeline.
And this diagram now should make sense.
Just on those six steps that we talked about we define their goals.
That is what do we want to accomplish.
We gather the data we pass the data that is we clean it we split it into training data and testing data.
We then do model creation and we experiment with different algorithms and then we finally test our data
see how accurate it is based on our testing data and then we just go back and try different things until
our model or our function is in line with what we defined as a goal.
Isn't that cool.
You just learn how Facebook is machine learning structure works.
Now let me ask you one question before I end this video.
What do you think the hardest part of this entire process is.
I made it sound very very easy right.
Think about it.
Ready for the answer.
The hardest part is actually grabbing the data because the more data we have the better the more inputs
we have.
The more training sets we can have so that we can improve the model and yes we can decide what algorithm
to use to create a model what inputs to use during the training set.
But the more data we have the more options we have as machine learning experts and it's really tough
to collect good data or what we call data set and companies like Google and Facebook are really really
valuable because they're the only ones that can collect that much data and that's why machine learning
is pioneered by these companies that have large sets of data because you and I just simply don't have
enough data to really make machine learning worth it.
Most companies don't actually need machine learning or can even implement good machine learning because
they don't have enough data.
You need big companies like Amazon to use machine learning because they're the only ones to have access
to that data and that's why they're so valuable they can share their model.
They don't care but they usually keep their data private because that's what gives them a competitive
advantage.
All right.
So now we know the steps of machine learning.
The next is to learn what tools we can use to do these steps so that we can finally start learning and
building our own machine learning models.
I'll see in the next one by.